W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

= Hybrid Standalone

> Hybrid standalone instances enable you to host the Mule runtime engin (Mule) in an environment you control. This model provides the control and security of deployments within customer trust boundary combined with the flexibility, scalability, and centralized management of cloud-based services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid standalone instances enable you to host the Mule runtime engine (Mule) in an environment you control. This model provides the control and security of deployments within customer trust boundary combined with the flexibility, scalability, and centralized management of cloud-based services.
```

With hybrid standalone instances, Mule can run on a physical server, a virtual machine, or within a third-party cloud service like Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure.

== Key Benefits

* Infrastructure control +

> Deploy on your own servers or cloud instances while maintaining full control over network security and meeting data residency requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy on your own servers or cloud instances while maintaining full control over network security and meeting data residency requirements.
```

* Centralized management +

> Leverage Anypoint Platform for centralized application deployment, real-time monitoring, and unified dashboards across all deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Leverage Anypoint Platform for centralized application deployment, real-time monitoring, and unified dashboards across all deployments.
```

* Scalability +

> Scale horizontally by adding more servers, creating server groups for load distribution, and implementing clusters for high availability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scale horizontally by adding more servers, creating server groups for load distribution, and implementing clusters for high availability.
```

* Compliance and security +

> Meet regulatory compliance requirements and integrate seamlessly with existing infrastructure and monitoring tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meet regulatory compliance requirements and integrate seamlessly with existing infrastructure and monitoring tools.
```

* Hybrid flexibility +

> Combine the control and security of on-premises deployments with the flexibility and management capabilities of cloud-based services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Combine the control and security of on-premises deployments with the flexibility and management capabilities of cloud-based services.
```

== Architecture Overview

> Hybrid Standalone architecture consists of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hybrid standalone architecture consists of:
```

* Mule runtime engine +
Setup on your infrastructure

> * Runtime Manager Agent +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Runtime Manager agent +
```

Communicates with Anypoint Platform
* Anypoint Platform +
Cloud-based management and monitoring
* Anypoint Runtime Manager +
Central management interface

== Getting Started

> To begin with Hybrid Standalone:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To begin with Hybrid Standalone:
```
is Hybrid Standalone capitalized? Is it is, apply changes in the doc every time it's mentioned.

> . Plan your infrastructure by determining server requirements and network configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Plan your infrastructure by determining server requirements and network configuration.
```
Add periods at the end of each bullet for consistency

. Set up servers by installing and configuring Mule runtime instances
. Register your Runtime Manager Agent to connect servers to Anypoint Platform
. Deploy and manage Mule applications
. Monitor and maintain your servers and Mule applications

== Use Cases

Hybrid Standalone is ideal for:

* Enterprise integration requiring connectivity between on-premises systems and cloud services while implementing enterprise service bus (ESB) architectures.

> * Regulatory compliance scenarios where data residency requirements, audit trails, and industry-specific regulations must be maintained within specific geographic boundaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Regulatory compliance scenarios that maintain data residency requirements, audit trails, and industry-specific regulations within specific geographic boundaries.
```

* High-performance applications with low-latency processing requirements, high-throughput data processing, and direct database access needs.

> * Legacy system integration and modernization efforts that require gradual migration to cloud-based services while maintaining existing network configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Legacy system integration and modernization efforts that enable gradual migration to cloud-based services while maintaining existing network configurations.
```

> * Custom performance optimization scenarios requiring full control over infrastructure, network security policies, and direct system access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Custom performance optimization scenarios that provide full control over infrastructure, network security policies, and direct system access.
```

== Infrastructure Requirements

=== Server Requirements

Minimum server specifications:

* **CPU**: 2+ cores recommended
* **Memory**: 4GB RAM minimum, 8GB+ recommended
* **Storage**: 10GB available disk space
* **Network**: Reliable internet connectivity
* **OS**: Supported operating systems (Linux, Windows)

=== Network Requirements

Network configuration needs:

* Outbound HTTPS connectivity to Anypoint Platform

> * Firewall configuration for Runtime Manager Agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Firewall configuration for Runtime Manager agent
```
